README.md, before:

dxld's mullvad config
=====================

Overview
--------

I use libpam-net to segregate a dedicated system user into a network namespace
which can only talk to the outside world through a wireguard interface.

[`mullvad-wg-netns.sh`](mullvad-wg-netns.sh) implements the provisioning of the
wireguard configs (generating privkey, uploading pubkey to mullvad API etc.). It
also supports bringing up the wireguard interface at boot since `wg-quick` does
not support netns or operating on a pre-existing wg interface.

Setup
-----

First we set up libpam-net:

    $ apt-get install libpam-net
    $ pam-auth-update --enable libpam-net-usernet
    $ addgroup --system usernet
    $ adduser <myuser> usernet

Note: this currently depends on an
[unmerged patch to libpam-net](https://github.com/rd235/libpam-net/pull/1) as
well as the
[unreleased Debian package](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=909908))
for libpam-net, both of these things are currently being worked on.
    
Now whenever `<myuser>` logs in, or a service is started as them, it will be
placed in a netns (cf. ip-netns(8)) corresponding to their username.

Next we provision the wireguard configs:

    $ path/to/mullvad-wg-net.sh provision

This will ask you for your mullvad account number, so keep that ready.

Finally to start the mullvad wireguard interface you should use the following
command:

    $ path/to/mullvad-wg-net.sh init <myuser> mullvad-<regioncode>.conf

Replace `<regioncode>` by whatever mullvad region you want to use, for example
`mullvad-at1.conf`, you can find the full list in `/etc/wireguard/` after
provisioning.

To make this permanent you can simply put it in `/etc/rc.local` or create a
systemd unit or something if you insist.


Security
--------

In order to make sure this whole setup works and to prevent leaks if something
fails I like to check if connectivity is going through mullvad on login. The
mullvad guys provide a convinient service for this: https://am.i.mullvad.net and
I wrote a convinient shell wrapper for it: [am-i-mullvad.sh](am-i-mullvad.sh).

To use it put it in your `.bash_profile` or simmilar shell startup script:

    $ cat >> .bash_profile << EOF
    sh path/to/am-i-mullvad.sh || exit 1
    EOF

If we're not connected through mullvad it will print an error message and kill
the shell after a short timeout so you can still get access if needed.

Commit message:

Add instructions for DNS setup

README.md, after:

dxld's mullvad config
=====================

Overview
--------

I use libpam-net to segregate a dedicated system user into a network namespace
which can only talk to the outside world through a wireguard interface.

[`mullvad-wg-netns.sh`](mullvad-wg-netns.sh) implements the provisioning of the
wireguard configs (generating privkey, uploading pubkey to mullvad API etc.). It
also supports bringing up the wireguard interface at boot since `wg-quick` does
not support netns or operating on a pre-existing wg interface.

Setup
-----

First we set up libpam-net:

    $ apt-get install libpam-net
    $ pam-auth-update --enable libpam-net-usernet
    $ addgroup --system usernet
    $ adduser <myuser> usernet

Note: this currently depends on an
[unmerged patch to libpam-net](https://github.com/rd235/libpam-net/pull/1) as
well as the
[unreleased Debian package](https://bugs.debian.org/cgi-bin/bugreport.cgi?bug=909908))
for libpam-net, both of these things are currently being worked on.
    
Now whenever `<myuser>` logs in, or a service is started as them, it will be
placed in a netns (cf. ip-netns(8)) corresponding to their username.

Next we provision the wireguard configs:

    $ path/to/mullvad-wg-net.sh provision

This will ask you for your mullvad account number, so keep that ready.

We're almost done, now we setup `resolv.conf` to prevent DNS leaks:

    $ mkdir -p /etc/netns/<myuser>
    $ printf '%s\n' '# Mullvad DNS' 193.138.219.228 > /etc/netns/<myuser>/resolv.conf
    $ chattr +i /etc/netns/<myuser>/resolv.conf

I do `chattr +i` to prevent resolvconf from meddling with this config. I suppose
it would be possible just to change the resolvconf configuration to get it
seperated from the main system, but without changes it will just use the DNS of
the rest of the system.

Finally to start the mullvad wireguard interface you should use the following
command:

    $ path/to/mullvad-wg-net.sh init <myuser> mullvad-<regioncode>.conf

Replace `<regioncode>` by whatever mullvad region you want to use, for example
`mullvad-at1.conf`, you can find the full list in `/etc/wireguard/` after
provisioning.

To make this permanent you can simply put it in `/etc/rc.local` or create a
systemd unit or something if you insist.


Security
--------

In order to make sure this whole setup works and to prevent leaks if something
fails I like to check if connectivity is going through mullvad on login. The
mullvad guys provide a convinient service for this: https://am.i.mullvad.net and
I wrote a convinient shell wrapper for it: [am-i-mullvad.sh](am-i-mullvad.sh).

To use it put it in your `.bash_profile` or simmilar shell startup script:

    $ cat >> .bash_profile << EOF
    sh path/to/am-i-mullvad.sh || exit 1
    EOF

If we're not connected through mullvad it will print an error message and kill
the shell after a short timeout so you can still get access if needed.
